CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

<div align="center">
<sub>

<b>English</b> • [Català](locales/ca/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [Deutsch](locales/de/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [Español](locales/es/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [Français](locales/fr/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [हिंदी](locales/hi/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [Bahasa Indonesia](locales/id/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [Italiano](locales/it/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [日本語](locales/ja/CONTRIBUTING.md)

</sub>
<sub>

[한국어](locales/ko/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [Nederlands](locales/nl/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [Polski](locales/pl/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [Português (BR)](locales/pt-BR/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [Русский](locales/ru/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [Türkçe](locales/tr/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [Tiếng Việt](locales/vi/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [简体中文](locales/zh-CN/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [繁體中文](locales/zh-TW/CONTRIBUTING.md)

</sub>
</div>

# Contributing to Roo Code

Roo Code is a community-driven project, and we deeply value every contribution. To streamline collaboration, we operate on an [Issue-First](#issue-first-approach) basis, meaning all [Pull Requests (PRs)](#submitting-a-pull-request) must first be linked to a GitHub Issue. Please review this guide carefully.

## Table of Contents

- [Before You Contribute](#before-you-contribute)
- [Finding & Planning Your Contribution](#finding--planning-your-contribution)
- [Development & Submission Process](#development--submission-process)
- [Legal](#legal)

## Before You Contribute

### 1. Code of Conduct

All contributors must adhere to our [Code of Conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

### 2. Project Roadmap

Our roadmap guides the project's direction. Align your contributions with these key goals:

### Reliability First

- Ensure diff editing and command execution are consistently reliable.
- Reduce friction points that deter regular usage.
- Guarantee smooth operation across all locales and platforms.
- Expand robust support for a wide variety of AI providers and models.

### Enhanced User Experience

- Streamline the UI/UX for clarity and intuitiveness.
- Continuously improve the workflow to meet the high expectations developers have for daily-use tools.

### Leading on Agent Performance

- Establish comprehensive evaluation benchmarks (evals) to measure real-world productivity.
- Make it easy for everyone to easily run and interpret these evals.
- Ship improvements that demonstrate clear increases in eval scores.

Mention alignment with these areas in your PRs.

### 3. Join the Roo Code Community

- **Primary:** Join our [Discord](https://discord.gg/roocode) and DM **Hannes Rudolph (`hrudolph`)**.
- **Alternative:** Experienced contributors can engage directly via [GitHub Projects](https://github.com/orgs/RooCodeInc/projects/1).

## Finding & Planning Your Contribution

### Types of Contributions

- **Bug Fixes:** Addressing code issues.
- **New Features:** Adding functionality.
- **Documentation:** Improving guides and clarity.

### Issue-First Approach

All contributions start with a GitHub Issue using our skinny templates.

- **Check existing issues**: Search [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/RooCodeInc/Bitx/issues).
- **Create an issue** using:
    - **Enhancements:** "Enhancement Request" template (plain language focused on user benefit).
    - **Bugs:** "Bug Report" template (minimal repro + expected vs actual + version).
- **Want to work on it?** Comment "Claiming" on the issue and DM **Hannes Rudolph (`hrudolph`)** on [Discord](https://discord.gg/roocode) to get assigned. Assignment will be confirmed in the thread.
- **PRs must link to the issue.** Unlinked PRs may be closed.

### Deciding What to Work On

- Check the [GitHub Project](https://github.com/orgs/RooCodeInc/projects/1) for "Issue [Unassigned]" issues.
- For docs, visit [Roo Code Docs](https://github.com/RooCodeInc/Bitx-Docs).

### Reporting Bugs

- Check for existing reports first.
- Create a new bug using the ["Bug Report" template](https://github.com/RooCodeInc/Bitx/issues/new/choose) with:
    - Clear, numbered reproduction steps
    - Expected vs actual result
    - Roo Code version (required); API provider/model if relevant
- **Security issues**: Report privately via [security advisories](https://github.com/RooCodeInc/Bitx/security/advisories/new).

## Development & Submission Process

### Development Setup

1. **Fork & Clone:**

```
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/Bitx.git
```

2. **Install Dependencies:**

```
pnpm install
```

3. **Debugging:** Open with VS Code (`F5`).

### Writing Code Guidelines

- One focused PR per feature or fix.
- Follow ESLint and TypeScript best practices.
- Write clear, descriptive commits referencing issues (e.g., `Fixes #123`).
- Provide thorough testing (`npm test`).
- Rebase onto the latest `main` branch before submission.

### Submitting a Pull Request

- Begin as a **Draft PR** if seeking early feedback.
- Clearly describe your changes following the Pull Request Template.
- Link the issue in the PR description/title (e.g., "Fixes #123").
- Provide screenshots/videos for UI changes.
- Indicate if documentation updates are necessary.

### Pull Request Policy

- Must reference an assigned GitHub Issue. To get assigned: comment "Claiming" on the issue and DM **Hannes Rudolph (`hrudolph`)** on [Discord](https://discord.gg/roocode). Assignment will be confirmed in the thread.
- Unlinked PRs may be closed.
- PRs should pass CI tests, align with the roadmap, and have clear documentation.

### Review Process

- **Daily Triage:** Quick checks by maintainers.
- **Weekly In-depth Review:** Comprehensive assessment.
- **Iterate promptly** based on feedback.

## Legal

By contributing, you agree your contributions will be licensed under the Apache 2.0 License, consistent with Roo Code's licensing.

Commit message:

refactor: rename project from Roo Code to Bitx
- Updated all references from "Roo Code" to "Bitx" in CLI commands, PR templates, mode configurations, and other project files to reflect the new project name and branding.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

<div align="center">
<sub>

<b>English</b> • [Català](locales/ca/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [Deutsch](locales/de/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [Español](locales/es/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [Français](locales/fr/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [हिंदी](locales/hi/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [Bahasa Indonesia](locales/id/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [Italiano](locales/it/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [日本語](locales/ja/CONTRIBUTING.md)

</sub>
<sub>

[한국어](locales/ko/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [Nederlands](locales/nl/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [Polski](locales/pl/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [Português (BR)](locales/pt-BR/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [Русский](locales/ru/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [Türkçe](locales/tr/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [Tiếng Việt](locales/vi/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [简体中文](locales/zh-CN/CONTRIBUTING.md) • [繁體中文](locales/zh-TW/CONTRIBUTING.md)

</sub>
</div>

# Contributing to Bitx

Bitx is a community-driven project, and we deeply value every contribution. To streamline collaboration, we operate on an [Issue-First](#issue-first-approach) basis, meaning all [Pull Requests (PRs)](#submitting-a-pull-request) must first be linked to a GitHub Issue. Please review this guide carefully.

## Table of Contents

- [Before You Contribute](#before-you-contribute)
- [Finding & Planning Your Contribution](#finding--planning-your-contribution)
- [Development & Submission Process](#development--submission-process)
- [Legal](#legal)

## Before You Contribute

### 1. Code of Conduct

All contributors must adhere to our [Code of Conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

### 2. Project Roadmap

Our roadmap guides the project's direction. Align your contributions with these key goals:

### Reliability First

- Ensure diff editing and command execution are consistently reliable.
- Reduce friction points that deter regular usage.
- Guarantee smooth operation across all locales and platforms.
- Expand robust support for a wide variety of AI providers and models.

### Enhanced User Experience

- Streamline the UI/UX for clarity and intuitiveness.
- Continuously improve the workflow to meet the high expectations developers have for daily-use tools.

### Leading on Agent Performance

- Establish comprehensive evaluation benchmarks (evals) to measure real-world productivity.
- Make it easy for everyone to easily run and interpret these evals.
- Ship improvements that demonstrate clear increases in eval scores.

Mention alignment with these areas in your PRs.

### 3. Join the Bitx Community

- **Primary:** Join our [Discord](https://discord.gg/roocode) and DM **Hannes Rudolph (`hrudolph`)**.
- **Alternative:** Experienced contributors can engage directly via [GitHub Projects](https://github.com/orgs/RooCodeInc/projects/1).

## Finding & Planning Your Contribution

### Types of Contributions

- **Bug Fixes:** Addressing code issues.
- **New Features:** Adding functionality.
- **Documentation:** Improving guides and clarity.

### Issue-First Approach

All contributions start with a GitHub Issue using our skinny templates.

- **Check existing issues**: Search [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/RooCodeInc/Bitx/issues).
- **Create an issue** using:
    - **Enhancements:** "Enhancement Request" template (plain language focused on user benefit).
    - **Bugs:** "Bug Report" template (minimal repro + expected vs actual + version).
- **Want to work on it?** Comment "Claiming" on the issue and DM **Hannes Rudolph (`hrudolph`)** on [Discord](https://discord.gg/roocode) to get assigned. Assignment will be confirmed in the thread.
- **PRs must link to the issue.** Unlinked PRs may be closed.

### Deciding What to Work On

- Check the [GitHub Project](https://github.com/orgs/RooCodeInc/projects/1) for "Issue [Unassigned]" issues.
- For docs, visit [Bitx Docs](https://github.com/RooCodeInc/Bitx-Docs).

### Reporting Bugs

- Check for existing reports first.
- Create a new bug using the ["Bug Report" template](https://github.com/RooCodeInc/Bitx/issues/new/choose) with:
    - Clear, numbered reproduction steps
    - Expected vs actual result
    - Bitx version (required); API provider/model if relevant
- **Security issues**: Report privately via [security advisories](https://github.com/RooCodeInc/Bitx/security/advisories/new).

## Development & Submission Process

### Development Setup

1. **Fork & Clone:**

```
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/Bitx.git
```

2. **Install Dependencies:**

```
pnpm install
```

3. **Debugging:** Open with VS Code (`F5`).

### Writing Code Guidelines

- One focused PR per feature or fix.
- Follow ESLint and TypeScript best practices.
- Write clear, descriptive commits referencing issues (e.g., `Fixes #123`).
- Provide thorough testing (`npm test`).
- Rebase onto the latest `main` branch before submission.

### Submitting a Pull Request

- Begin as a **Draft PR** if seeking early feedback.
- Clearly describe your changes following the Pull Request Template.
- Link the issue in the PR description/title (e.g., "Fixes #123").
- Provide screenshots/videos for UI changes.
- Indicate if documentation updates are necessary.

### Pull Request Policy

- Must reference an assigned GitHub Issue. To get assigned: comment "Claiming" on the issue and DM **Hannes Rudolph (`hrudolph`)** on [Discord](https://discord.gg/roocode). Assignment will be confirmed in the thread.
- Unlinked PRs may be closed.
- PRs should pass CI tests, align with the roadmap, and have clear documentation.

### Review Process

- **Daily Triage:** Quick checks by maintainers.
- **Weekly In-depth Review:** Comprehensive assessment.
- **Iterate promptly** based on feedback.

## Legal

By contributing, you agree your contributions will be licensed under the Apache 2.0 License, consistent with Bitx's licensing.
